Parent Statement for Partner Services
Version: 2026/2027

--- Page 1 ---
1 | P a g e
Parent Statement for Partner Services
1. Welcome to our Partner Service
Ash's Angels Preschool, Lower Quartertown Mallow Mallow P51V3FY, is a Partner Service, working 
together with the Department of Children, Disability and Equality, and parents/guardians to deliver high 
quality, affordable, inclusive Early Learning and Care (ELC) and/or School Age Childcare (SAC) services 
for children under Together for Better.
Together for Better is the funding model for early learning and childcare that brings together four major 
programmes, the Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) programme - including the Access and 
Inclusion Model (AIM), the National Childcare Scheme (NCS), Core Funding, and Equal Start.
As a Partner Service, we offer subsidy schemes to parents/guardians and receive Core Funding in return 
for adhering to the scheme's terms and conditions outlined in the Core Funding Partner Service 
Agreement. Further information on Core Funding is available here: https://www.gov.ie/en/department-of-
children-disability-and-equality/campaigns/core-funding/.
Core Funding, which began in September 2022, is a supply side funding stream to develop a closer 
partnership for the public good between the State and providers. Its primary purpose is to improve 
affordability and accessibility for parents, pay and conditions in the sector, and income stability for 
providers.
This Parent Statement outlines some of the important things you can expect from us, as a Partner Service. 
This Parent Statement is provided as a condition of the Core Funding Partner Service Funding Agreement, 
the NCS, ECCE and CCSP Saver Funding agreements.
This Parent Statement describes the agreement in place between us Ash's Angels Preschool and the 
parents/guardians that use our service with respect to fees charged to parents/guardians, and as a Partner 
Service we have committed to adhere to Core Funding's terms and conditions regarding fee management.
1.1 About Us
Here are some of the basic things to know about us:
A typical week for us is 08:30 to 15:00 Monday to Friday for 38 weeks per year.
At Ash's Angels Preschool we offer the following services to children and their families:
[ ] Sessional Care for Early Learning & Care (ELC) excluding ECCE provision
[x] Sessional preschool under ECCE (Free Preschool)
[ ] Full day care/part time care for Early Learning & Care (ELC) 
[ ] Term time School Age Childcare
[ ] Out of term School Age Childcare

--- Page 2 ---
2 | P a g e
2. Early Childhood Care and Education Programme (ECCE), Access and Inclusion 
Model (AIM), National Childcare Scheme (NCS) and Community Childcare 
Subvention Plus (CCSP) Saver Programme.
In addition to Core Funding, this Partner Service is in contract to deliver the:
[ ] National Childcare Scheme (NCS)
[x] Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) programme
[ ] Community Childcare Subvention Plus (CCSP) Saver 
Programme
Early Childhood Care and Education Programme (ECCE)
ECCE provides for 15 hours per week of preschool provision for 38 week services or 14 hours per week for 
41 week services per year before children start primary school at no charge to parents/guardians. A child is 
eligible to start ECCE once they have turned 2 years and 8 months of age on, or prior to, 31 August that 
year.
As a Partner Service, we must offer ECCE to all eligible children within its service where we have 
committed to provide such a service above. 
If you are availing of additional childcare, the balance of the childcare fees that you have to pay are the 
child's fees minus the ECCE hours which your child is eligible for. The hours you are awarded is paid by 
the Department to Ash's Angels Preschool for your child. Any additional childcare hours you are using 
outside of ECCE are eligible for an NCS subsidy (see details below).
Ash's Angels Preschool must provide you with written details of how the balance of your childcare fees are 
calculated (that is, the fee we charge less your free hours per week of preschool provision).
Asha Joanna O'Boyle will support you in registering your child for the ECCE programme in our service if 
your child meets the eligibility criteria. Further information about ECCE is available here - 
https://www.gov.ie/en/publication/2459ee-early-childhood-care-and-education-programme-ecce/
Please note: In the ECCE Programme you are not required or obliged to select or pay a deposit for any 
optional extras. 
If you do avail of any optional extra, should you, at any time, wish to withdraw from any of the optional 
extras selected, you should provide Ash's Angels Preschool with 4 weeks' notice.
Access and Inclusion Model (AIM)
The goal of AIM is to create a more inclusive environment in preschools, so all children, regardless of 
ability, can benefit from quality early learning and care. The model achieves this by providing universal 
supports to preschool settings, and targeted supports, which focus on the needs of the individual child, 
without requiring a diagnosis of disability.
Further information about AIM is available here - https://aim.gov.ie/
Optional:
This service also has an Inclusion Coordinator, Asha O'Boyle who has a special qualification focused on 
supporting the inclusion of all children in the service. 
Calendars
Ash's Angels Preschool will provide you with a separate letter indicating the days our service is closed over 
the programme year. We will provide you with a minimum of 20 working days written notice period of our 
intention to change this.

--- Page 3 ---
3 | P a g e
3. Fees Policies
As a Partner Service, we operate a Fees Policy that is transparent and understandable to our 
parents/guardians and is compliant with the requirements under the Core Funding Partner Service Funding 
Agreement. 
The fees for all our service types are displayed clearly and accurately on the Fee Table contained within 
this Parent Statement. Please do not hesitate to contact Asha Joanna O'Boyle who will provide additional 
clarification as required.
If we choose to withdraw from the scheme during the programme year (September 2026 - August 2027) 
we are required to give you, and Pobal the scheme administrator, 3 months written notice of our intention 
to withdraw.
The Department offers us, as a Partner Service the option of availing of Case Management supports if we 
are experiencing concerns regarding our viability as an alternative to withdrawing from the scheme, and 
removing the benefits of the scheme to parents/guardians.
3.1 Fee Management - As a Partner Service, we operate our Fees Policy in accordance with the Core 
Funding Partner Service Funding Agreement, which in programme year 2026/2027 involves no increases of 
fees on those charged to parents/guardians on 30 of September 2021, called an effective 'fee freeze'. There 
may be some exceptions to this rule, which can be found in 
https://earlyyearshive.ncs.gov.ie/downloads/download-corefunding/. In order that you can understand what 
this fee freeze means for you, we have outlined our fees and associated fees policy below. 
[x]
a) Our service was in existence on or before 30 September 2021
As a Partner Service, we are committed to operating the effective 'fee freeze' for Programme 
Year 2026/2027. This means that we will not charge our parents/guardians more for the 
same service than what we were charging in September 2021.
[ ]
b) Our service was established after 30 September 2021
This means, as a Partner Service that we will not charge our parents/guardians more for the 
same service than what we were charging when we first became a Partner service. We are 
committed to operating the effective 'fee freeze' for Programme Year 2026/2027.
3.2 Donations - We will not request or accept any regular or routine donations, voluntary or otherwise from 
parents/guardians, in respect of the ELC/SAC services being provided.
3.3 Deposits - We will not charge any non-refundable deposits1 to parents/guardians in the respect of their 
ELC/SAC service where the parent/guardian takes up the service for which the deposit was paid.
3.4 Discounts - We will keep all discounts that were available on 30 September 2021 in place, provided 
that they are available to all children in our service. Any discount relevant to you will be applied to your 
normal fee.
3.5 Optional Extras - The term 'Optional Extra' is only applicable to any extra services or activities we offer 
under ECCE which are not funded by the Programmes but which are voluntary with optional charges to you. 
These optional extras are very limited in nature and there is a copy of the Department approved optional 
extras list available in Appendix 1 of the ECCE programme rules, which are also available on the Early Years 
Hive. 
3.6 Additional Service - Is when something additional to a service type/fee option is offered to 
parents/guardians. Take up of the additional service must be entirely optional to parents/guardians. For 
example, a service provider may offer school collection services in addition to their SAC Service Types, all 
1 Non-refundable deposits include administration/registration fees or other such charges.

--- Page 4 ---
4 | P a g e
additional extras must be entirely optional to parents/guardians and charged for additionally. These must 
appear on the fee table as applicable.
3.7 Fee Review Process - As a Partner Service, we must uphold our contractual obligations regarding our 
fees charged to parents/guardians as laid out in the Core Funding Partner Service Funding Agreement. 
Where a parent/guardian/individual identifies a potential breach of Core Funding fee rules by a Partner 
Service, they may seek to have this examined and a conclusion reached through the Core Funding Fee 
Review process. 
A parent/guardian/individual who has identified a change to a Partner Service's fee policy potentially 
breaching the Core Funding Partner Service Funding Agreement, may address the issue in the first instance 
directly with the Service if they chose to do so. 
In certain cases, this step may allow for the quick resolution of the case between the Partner Service and 
the parent/guardian without engagement with the CCC. This pre-fee review stage is optional. 
Where a parent/guardian does not wish to engage with the service regarding their concerns or questions 
around Fee Management, a parent/guardian can raise the case directly with their local CCC. A list of CCC 
contact details is available from City and County Childcare Committees.
3.8 Fee Policy
A. The fee policy we are going to implement for year 2026/2027 is the same as the fee policy that we had 
in place on 30 September 2021.

--- Page 5 ---
5 | P a g e
3.9 Fee Table
Programme Year: 2026/2027
3.9.1 - Section A: Fee Options
Fee Type 
Name
Session 
Type
Session 
Start Time
Session 
Finish 
Time
Hrs:Mins 
per Day
Days per 
Week
Hrs:Mins 
per Week
Weeks 
per year
Fee Full Fee 
Non-
ECCE 
Eligible 
Children
Effective 
From
Effective 
To
ECCE 
Morning 
8:30 - 
11:30
AM 08:30 11:30 3.00 5 15.00 38 EUR0 EUR0 31/08/2026 27/06/2027
ECCE 
Afternoon 
12:00 -
15:00
PM 12:00 15:00 3.00 5 15.00 38 EUR0 EUR0 31/08/2026 27/06/2027
3.9.2 - Section B: Fee Extras: 
Deposit / Discount / Optional Extras* / Additional Services
Type Extras Amount Frequency Other Description Additional 
Detail / 
Conditions
Effective From Effective To
Deposit EUR100 Once Off EUR100 deposit - 
deposit is 
refundable once 
 31/08/2026

--- Page 6 ---
6 | P a g e
the child is 
registered on 
ECCE.
Discount EUR We do not offer 
discounts
 31/08/2026 
No Optional 
Extras
 EUR 
* These are entirely optional to parents/guardians.
3.9.3 - Section C - Other Additional Information
 
3.10 The changes to our Fees Policy as applicable on September 30 2021 (or when we first became a Partner Service, whichever is earlier) are as 
follows:
3.10 (a) The following new Service Types ARE available:
Fee Type 
Name
SAC/ 
ELC
Age 
Range
Min Age Max Age ECCE 
available 
for ECCE 
Eligible 
Children
Session 
Start 
time
Session 
finish 
time
Incorpor
ated 
Services
?
Choose 
incorpor
ated 
Service
Addition
al 
Informati
on
No. 
hours 
per day
No days 
per week
No. 
hours 
per week
Fee (less 
ECCE 3 
Free 
Hours (EUR)
Full 
Fee
 
3.10(b) The following Service Types are NO LONGER available:

--- Page 7 ---
7 | P a g e
Fee Type 
Name
SAC/ 
ELC
Age 
Range
Min Age Max Age ECCE 
available 
for ECCE 
Eligible 
Children
Session 
Start 
time
Session 
finish 
time
Incorpor
ated 
Services
?
Choose 
incorpor
ated 
Service
Addition
al 
Informati
on
No. 
hours 
per day
No days 
per week
No. 
hours 
per week
Fee (less 
ECCE 3 
Free 
Hours (EUR)
Full 
Fee

--- Page 8 ---
8 | P a g e
4. Quality measures
As a Partner Service, we are committed to delivering quality for children and families. There are number of 
ways we can show this.
4.1 Our staff have the following qualifications: 
Room/Session Qualification
Morning Level 8 Early Childhood Studies
Afternoon Level 8 Early Childhood Studies
4.2 
[x]
We are actively working to implement our Quality and Inclusion Practice Plan
(QIPP) and we will report on progress at the end of the year to the Department of 
Children, Disability and Equality and our parents/guardians.
Ash's Angels Preschool will display the end of year QIPP report in an area accessible to 
parents/guardians as well as on any online platform maintained by the Ash's Angels Preschool for 
the purpose of advertising its service or providing information to parents/guardians.
Queries -If you have any queries or wish to discuss any of the above, please contact Asha Joanna 
O'Boyle. Alternatively, you could address queries to your local City/County Childcare Committee 
(CCC). A list of CCC contact details is available from City and County Childcare Committees.

--- Page 9 ---
9 | P a g e
Ash's Angels Preschool will display this Parent Statement at all times in an area accessible to 
parents/guardians as well as on any online platform maintained by the Ash's Angels Preschool for 
the purpose of advertising its service or providing information to parents/guardians. Ash's Angels 
Preschool will print and co-sign a Parent Statement for each family. A copy signed by Ash's Angels 
Preschool and the parent/guardian will be retained on file. Any changes to Fee Policies will require 
that an updated Parent Statement is displayed and Ash's Angels Preschool will issue updated 
Parent Statements by email to our parents/guardians and retain proof of the associated email. 
In this section include details of the child(ren), in this family only, enrolled at the service (as per 
parent/guardian name below):
Use BLOCK CAPITALS:
Child first name Child family name
This Parent Statement is an agreement between the parent/guardian and the Partner Service. As a Partner 
Service, we will adhere to the scheme's terms and conditions outlined in the Core Funding Partner Service 
Funding Agreement, including those related to fee management. Further information on Core Funding is 
available here: https://www.gov.ie/en/department-of-children-disability-and-equality/campaigns/core-
funding/.
This Parent Statement sets out what is on offer at Ash's Angels Preschool. We are responsible for 
ensuring that the fees represented in this Parent Statement are accurate, and represents all fees charged 
and the corresponding services offered. 
If our Partner Service displays fees in another format in addition to this document that is permitted, 
however the fees charged must match the fees contained in this Parent Statement.
Programme Year: 2026/2027
Service Provider Name: Ash's Angels Preschool
Service Reference No.: 18CC0622
Signed - Parent/Guardian: 
Parent/Guardian name in BLOCK CAPITALS:
Date:
